why do so many people fall into the trap
of preaching that you ought to chase
your dream here on YouTube I think it's
something you say relatively rarely in
real life or it's something you'd say
with great trepidation in real life I do
not think you would casually tell
somebody you know face to face even if
you don't know them very deeply oh you
want to be an actor or an actress chase
your dream like even if it's someone
who's just a classmate of yours someone
you know in a kind of shallow and
passing way at a minimum you might judge
them based on their appearance and you
might already have reasons to say maybe
you shouldn't chase that dream you can
judge them based on their appearance
based now you know them and you can
judge their dream maybe being an actor
isn't the best dream for this person
maybe you know that right away
um people usually ask me about you know
heroes have had in my life people have
looked up to people have respected
they're normally looking for for you
know an author a famous author a famous
intellectual figure maybe a movie star
they're normally not asking what people
have known face-to-face but sometimes
people ask me did I have any role models
that come was there a particular
professor you know I don't know friend
uncle grandfather was there anyone who
who positively inspired me or or guided
me in these conversations
was there anyone who ever advised me to
go to and chase my dream home as so many
people do here on YouTube I think I can
say I might be a very different person
if I did have that kind of positive
contact whether through books through
writing or through people on you face to
face but I didn't and I mean part of my
ultra cynicism my overt nihilism
doubtless links to that experience I had
and it's not really growing up you're
not talking about childhood I think
you're really talking about the last
couple of years of high school and then
the university period of time that's
when you're really talking to people
about your dreams talking to people
about your plans to the future seeking
advice and in my case your being
disappointed again and again with the
advice you get the format we have
here on YouTube it's very different if
I'm replying to a specific email I've
received a specific message within
patreon from patreon supporter specific
written comment I may give one person
advice I had a guy writing to me lately
and he was talking to me he was asking
for advice about vegan activism a
political activism given the fact that
he's confined to a wheelchair is a very
serious disease innate condition he
can't walk and he can't drive a normal
car unless the car has been specially
modified for him to drive it um so his
approach to activism is different
because he has a physical disability
he's also a university student so you
know he's a relatively highly educated
person he's still in university etcetera
the advice I give him is even just with
that little bit of information you know
what do you think do you think I'm
stupid enough to come on here and make a
video and say Oh chase your dreams if
you know someone in a wheelchair what if
their dream is to be an actor well yeah
there are a very small number of jobs
for someone's confined to a wheelchair
to be an actor if someone is confined to
a wheelchair and they want to be a
political activist and veganism I was
trying to give him meaningful advice
where I talked about okay there are some
forms of activism you can do and there's
some form of activism you can't do and
some of them are underrated and some of
them are overrated let's let's really
sit down and talk about and that's all I
know about I've never met him we haven't
talked by Skype he just sent me an email
saying oh yeah he also said he was poor
so he he's broke he has no money he's a
university student so he doesn't have a
lot of time and he's confined to a
wheelchair
he's been vegan for five months but he's
really highly motivated to get involved
enactment so beautiful there's a
wonderful email to get I was very happy
to reply to him but something about the
format of speaking to your imaginary
audience and trying to give advice
that's equally valid for everyone in
your audience that seems to lead people
down this path of preaching that you
should chase your dreams
and it's very rare to hear someone
questioning that paradigm to chase your
dreams paradigm
um Lord Jamar who's a former rapper or
former hip-hop artist who these days
mostly comments on hip hop culture rap
and what-have-you
I remember Lord Jamar questioning it in
a totally different political context
but he said what if my dream was to be a
revolutionary you know for a guy he's in
Kies yoga he's a black man from a
certain generation that very much is in
transition in terms of civil rights in
terms of the status of African Americans
and I think when he was younger he did
I mean he's speaking about himself
pretty directly what if my what if his
dream is to lead a violent revolution
and try to found a new Republic start a
new society start a new country you know
I don't know if he specifically was a
was a black separatist african-american
separatist but anyway um he's alluding
to his own youth of being involved with
radical politics of various kinds what
are you gonna do are you just gonna say
chase your dream is usually because
that's what you identify as that's how
you imagine yourself that's what you
should do with your life um in my case
when I got to the end of my university
education I had narrowed down my
research interests and chosen my path of
the future and I was pretty well focused
on Cambodia now I met one of my
brother's if you haven't been watching
this channel on time I have
approximately a hundred brothers my
father had a ludicrous number of
children and this was in fact the first
and last time I ever sat down and had a
face-to-face conversation of this
particular brother
so this brother I had met him before for
five minutes
oh hey hey we should meet and have
coffee and then this was when we met in
that coffee and then a system we never
spoke even once which was his choice I
tried I tried to state there's this
relative but this was the only
conversation I ever had with this
particular brother and you'll see why I
mentioned this particular brother of
mine he is gay so of all my brothers
he's the only one who actively
identifies this game which is goes sure
if you have enough kids sooner or later
I think there is there is some
statistical inevitability if you have
enough kids some of them are gonna be
gay I don't this brother of mine he's
gay and when he was asking but what I
was doing in the future that time I was
basically already done University
I was like all right I'm I'm packing up
and moving to Cambodia and you know I
had this combination of historical
interest in language interest in
researchers I had totally down-to-earth
reasons for moving to Cambodia it wasn't
it wasn't that I wanted to be a movie
star that might be a viable goal if you
want to go to Cambodia and work in the
movie industry especially at that time
but I mean there was nothing you know
there was nothing as extravagant as
wanting to become a movie star or want
to become a famous singer or anything
like that but I said yeah these are my
reasons I want to go to Cambodia and do
this kind of work and working langston
and I remember his response was one that
wasn't it wasn't just dismissive I was
gonna say it was 100% dismissive and
contentious really what it was he was
simply completely certain I would never
do it
he's wrote says oh no that's not gonna
happen no no you're not gonna do that
you're gonna yeah you're gonna give up
on that dream and just move it like in
no time you're just gonna forget about
it
he didn't even think I would try and
fail he just thought I'd I'd never go to
him oh yeah like this would never happen
cause I think he I think he'd been to
Cambodia on vacation I don't know anyway
he'd traveled around he'd been around
the world on vacation I don't know
whether or not he'd ever actually gone
Cambodia but he was just completely
dismissive that and I remember looking
it up so this is someone who has the
same DNA that I have but who's never met
before I asked have you met me this is
my own brother but like what makes you
think you know who you're talking to
hey like what thinks you know well what
makes you think you know the depths of
my risk aversion what why would you
think like why would you think this is
unattainable for me you know um I mean
it's true at that time on the one hand
nobody said chase your dream and on the
other hand nobody provided me with
down-to-earth useful advice no
buddy and I talked to all my professors
it's actually worth or fighting one of
my professors in this department was an
alcoholic very self-destructive
alcoholic and was hard to take what he
said seriously another professor he was
a professor of Asian Studies etc he had
never been Asia never got an airplane
never traveled ever did humanitarian so
he had no real-world experience just
more recently at University of Victoria
I also had a lot of professors where
they were in that sense disconnected
from reality it doesn't mean they're bad
people some of them I really liked as
people who I was talking to one of them
about my my future education and and
career options and he was telling me to
go to business school in Beijing or
Shanghai and I had to look at him I had
to look at him and say have you met me
he'd know me that for more than a year
but what I actually said was not have
you met me I said um you've read my CV
you've read my resume are you forgetting
what kind of guy is described by that
resume slightly more polite you know why
do you think I would go to a business
school and get a diploma in business
management in Beijing or Shanghai and
why do you think they would want me
there if a guy like me shows up in one
of those places I think most of those
people know pretty soon I'm not the next
Donald Trump except in a sense of course
I am but you know I'm not one of those
guys that's not my but it's not my
culture snow majors and so on um you
know I can remember also I've been in
that position of giving advice to others
and sometimes it's been people who
wanted to go into the theater you know
it's such a different thing to look into
someone's face even if it's the first
time you've met them even if you know
nothing about them and say chase your
dream when your dream may be
self-destructive
it may be destructive toward others um
it may be unattainable it may be all too
attainable it may be that it's not
ambitious enough I mean how how many
people you know where their dream is to
basically waste time
play video games how many people you
know who just fundamentally lack
ambition because even that advice chase
your dream sometimes is there's not a
lot of chasing and there's just a whole
lot of dreaming going on and for some
people like my own brother in that story
your dream whatever it is is just
inconceivable to them they can't you
know they can't imagine it so any advice
or encouragement they give is is
meaningless
um it's not my place to tell people not
to offer advice on the Internet
I think that you know what what I've
really got to say here is you should
discipline yourself if you're on YouTube
to always give advice speaking from a
specific set of circumstances and to a
specific set of circumstances so I got
this letter from a guy who's confined to
a wheelchair I don't know what that's
like I've never been in a wheelchair
I've never worked with a disabled that's
not my it's not my area of expertise I'm
not gonna speak as an expert on that but
he's asking me questions but some things
I know about some things I can offer
advice on and I can say okay here's what
I understand about your situation based
on when he told me here's my experience
my background my perspective here's what
I can tell you coming from that because
as I say again and again I really am
biased by my experience if I had chosen
to become a specialist in the Muslim
world in Arabic and languages related to
Arabic dialects of Arabic my whole
perspective on politics would be
different today and I would be
emotionally invested in a totally
different set of examples if I had
chosen to specialize in Haiti in Central
America the Caribbean or Latin America
my perspective would be different it is
true in ways both shallow and profound
just even the selection of examples that
I directed my attention to have biased
by perspective when we're talking about
something is totally different as
ecology the Green Party veganism etc and
they bias me if someone wants to talk to
me about their dream
you know their dream whatever it may be
so I do think the cure for advice itis
here on YouTube the cure for chase your
dream itis I think it is you over use
the term keeping it real what it really
means this context to keep it real to
keep it real your argument should
proceed from specific experience and to
specific experience and try to avoid too
many glorious generalizations on the
road in between